welcome to the man of recaps this is
marvel's agents of shield the seventh
and final season welcome back to 1930s
new york remember the chronicles are
trying to conquer earth and take it for
themselves and shield being their
biggest opponent they've gone back in
time to erase shield from history but
our agents have a time machine of their
own now built with the help of good
chronicom
enoch he's been working with fitzsimmons
but fitz is off on his own special
mission and gemma for security reasons
can't know where he is so sadly he's not
around this season but rejoining the
team they also built a life model decoy
agent coulson
yes he's the same old coulson we know
and love it's just a bit of a shock for
him at first to accept that he's dead
and now just a robot and so are gang's
all set for an epic time traveling
adventure now one of the reasons they
built robot coulson is because he's an
expert on shield history for example he
knows there's a speakeasy that is
actually a shield secret outpost and the
password is swordfish turns out it's run
by grandpa
koenig yes descendant of the modern
quadruplets now it looks like the
chronicles plan is to assassinate future
president fdr but turns out their real
target is just a random kid named freddy
so quake busts in there to save him
turns out this kid has just been
recruited to make a delivery for
high draw yes he is wilfred malik one of
the future hydra bigwigs
his delivery is the red skull super
soldier serum and if hydra never rises
she'll never rise us to counter it
so you're saying to save shield we have
to save hydra
these of the opinion they should shoot
him right now and change history
hopefully for the better but the
chronicom's bust in it's a big shootout
and in the end wilfred malik makes his
delivery so history is preserved for
better or worse now turns out our crew
can't control their time machine they're
just drifting following in the
chronicom's wake enoch wasn't at the
ship and they didn't have enough warning
so oh he gets left behind luckily he
doesn't age so he'll be time traveling
the slow way next up on our adventure is
the 1950s in fact they're at area 51
which is a shield outpost they bluff
their way in by pretending simmons is
agent peggy carter yeah i mean they both
have british accents it's kind of close
but who happens to be here today it's
daniel souza yes crossed over from the
agent carter show he was agent carter's
partner and brief romantic interest so
he knows this ain't peggy but the
chronicoms are here gonna blow up all of
shield by overloading the science thing
so they fight it out by the way coulson
does have super robot strength now they
set off an emp that knocks out all the
robots including coulson and it fries
coulson's color sensors so they have an
excuse to do an epic black and white
film noir episode now according to
history agent sousa dies tonight after
making an important delivery and
coulson's got to make sure that stays on
track long story short they tracked down
the science thing so he can deliver it
but not before he drops a not so
surprising surprise on them
i think shield has been infiltrated
by hydra you got it yeah and hydra's
infiltrated high up already because his
boss in shield is grown up wilfred malik
so susan makes his delivery and malik
orders his death and history is
preserved with some slight changes
yes coulson being a robot can get shot
no problem so he took daniel's place
it's like sorry man according to history
you're dead now but that means you get
to join our awesome time traveling crew
welcome to life after death i'll tell
you all about it
now it's time to go to the 1970s
alt-right now remember agent melinda may
had a glorious romance with the real
colson but she's very unfazed by robot
coulson remember she was grievously
injured at the end of last season and
while she's always had her emotions in
check now she has no emotions at all
except sometimes she has uncontrollable
outbursts of emotions pretty soon they
figure out
she's got empath powers now feels the
emotions of whoever she's touching the
game goes back to the swordfish bar
where 1970 shield is having a party
they're celebrating now director of
shield wilfred malik and his new plan to
stop threats before they begin
project insight sounds like hydra's 40
years ahead of schedule
yes the chronicles have decided to ally
with hydra to defeat shield gave malik
spoilers about the future so he could
have a leg up so he's been waiting for
our agents but daisy takes one of his
sons hostage and they managed to escape
with the help of enoch
who spent the last 40 years as a
bartender luckily they've got three
years to stop project insight except
what's this they're traveling whoop it
is launch day
they go to blow the place up while daisy
hacks a security system zeus is having a
hard time adjusting to the advanced tech
of the 70s and daisy kind of flirts with
him as she blows his mind
with 20 20 tech but what's this they're
captured by nathaniel malek
yeah three years ago when daisy took him
hostage she used her quake powers and
he's like whoa i want some of that so he
figured out the whitehall procedure to
take her quake powers for himself
luckily seuss is here to help and long
story short they escape deep treks down
old man malik who starts monologuing but
deke just shoots him he's like yeah i
should have done that 40 years ago but
hydra took hostages
those are mack's parents mac won't kill
his parents he calls the mission off and
so project insight launches
luckily our team does have the zephyr a
super advanced time-traveling spaceship
and shoots it out of the sky that gives
away their position though so the zephyr
gets damaged more on that in a minute
for now though they managed to rescue
mac's parents
this is agent rodriguez
she's my girlfriend oh i don't think
these strangers care
eventually colson figures out that under
the lighthouse is where the chronicom
ship has been hiding he goes into the
virtual reality and meets the chronicom
leader
sybil the predictor she analyzes the
time stream to see how to influence
events she's like yo colson you can't
win i can see the future and he's like
well i bet you didn't see this coming
because he's still got the big bag of
bombs and being a robot has no fear of
death
blows himself and the whole chronic come
ship up so the day is saved except when
maxdad touches may she doesn't get an
emotional reading from him
his parents have already been replaced
by chronicoms mac has to push his mom
out the plane oh emotionally scarring
after the next time jump mac needs a
minute to process but what's this the
zephyr is jumping again right away
leaving deak and max stranded in the 80s
max spends a year real sad grows out an
epic depression beard but you know the
dexter he makes the most of it
my name is deke shaw and i wrote this
song
yes deke has abused his future knowledge
of 80s music to become a rock star
but turns out his band doubles as his
own crack team of shield agents they're
working out of the lighthouse with some
improvements and also guess who survived
the explosion it's virtual coulson
coulson not a bunch of ones and zeros
trapped in a digital hell
i'd like to think so but admittedly
there's been some real soul-searching
here
but the chronicom survived as well and
they've built themselves some new
classically 80s robot bodies and it
turns into a campy 80s horror movie the
only way to beat them is to flip the
genre
turn it into a campy 80s action movie
long story short it's the best thing
ever they blow up all these robots but
one escapes with the time stream takes
it back to sybil who's now working with
nathaniel malek so the game's reunited
but the drive is still damaged turns out
it keeps warping uncontrollably there's
an energy field around it the only way
to fix it is if someone's fast enough to
get in there of course yo-yo has super
speed but her powers haven't been
working all season so they've got to go
see an
inhuman expert at afterlife it's daisy's
mom dying
she examines yoyo but turns out there's
nothing physically wrong with her her
block is mental which means she needs to
use mei's empath powers to figure out
her feelings
neither of these women are super
emotional so they fight it out instead
and it unlocks her memories of when she
was a kid she came out of the closet but
went right back and her uncle died but
there's more media concerns as one of
the inhumans has escaped she's got
dangerous explosive powers can't control
it gonna kill herself but
what's this stopped by someone with
quake powers it's nathaniel malek
dressed like he's in the matrix
he's like come on baby join me on the
dark side it's super cool i promise but
this girl's not just any inhuman she is
jaying's other daughter yeah daisy's
half-sister she's super angsty right now
though and starts blasting people so
it's like hey we'll deal with this later
we gotta go fix our time machine our
yo-yo's power is now unblocked
yes they are she gets in there and fixes
the thing but wait what's this she
doesn't bounce back
yeah it turns out that limitation of her
power was just a mental block too she's
a full-on speedster now but the name
yo-yo no longer makes sense
unfortunately that did not fix all the
time drive's problems and oh they jump
again daisy wakes up from the medical
tube to find out they have been warped
out of time and space
before they can fix it they warp again
and daisy wakes up in the medical tube
again
yeah you know it it's a time loop
episode but there's a fun twist because
coulson was in sleep mode he remembers
too
but daisy doesn't remember they've
already done this almost 100 times
every time she dies she forgets and
colson has to explain it to her all over
again and they can't keep blooping
infinitely there's a time limit because
they are circling the drain of this time
storm and every loop they're a little
bit closer eventually they learn a
secret that might be the key gemma
doesn't know where fitz is because she
actually has an implant blocking that
memory if she removes it she might also
remember how to fix the time drive but
what's this she's choking and dies
someone burst the pipe and there's a
murder mystery pretty soon they figure
out the killer is enoch no he's not a
bad guy simon's programmed him to not
let her remove memory blocker no matter
what no matter what they do enoch keeps
stopping them they recruit the whole
team to help but he takes them all out
every time daisy wakes up by the way
daniel seuss is there sleeping next to
her it's like hey man why are you here
and it's like well because i'm a nice
guy and i really care for you so
they spend a loop making out eventually
they distract enoch long enough to get
the implant out and gemma remembers if
they use enoch's power core to power the
drive it's an easy fix but removing his
power core would kill enoch and the next
loop they're out of time this is the
final loop so enoch no hesitation
sacrifices himself to save the team so
back to business in the late 80s it's
time to liberate afterlife but oh malek
was waiting for him yeah he's been
working with sybil in the time drive
knew they were coming he's recruited a
familiar face to his team a young john
garrett the season one villain and if
you're thinking wow that casting is spot
on it is bill paxton's son they give him
gordon's teleportation powers and warped
to the lighthouse where daisy's having a
heart-to-heart with her mom but now it's
time for a quake fight
giant grabs him to protect her daughter
but oh he kills her
no she was still good in this timeline
but turns out the main goal here is
kidnapping simmons yeah they warp back
to the chronicom ship where sibyl
explains that all the versions where
they lose is because fitz somehow saves
them to find out where he is they take
out gemma's implant which leaves her
very disoriented with all her memories
flooding back so daisy realizes if they
can predict the future the only way to
beat them is to be
unpredictable so they fly off to space
with no plan daisy rescue simmons but is
stopped by her half sister they have a
sister fight but daisy's like yo i don't
want to fight you you should be a good
guy so cora's having doubts wait are we
the bad guys and nate immediately turns
on her at the ship mack busts out the
awesome staff explosion weapon we
haven't seen since episode two they have
an awesome escape plan they duct tape a
bunch of these chronicoms to missiles
all of their cores are super explosive
and boom get out of there
just then the rest of the chronic fleet
arrives and there's no one stopping them
now from destroying all of
shield our team meets up with the
survivors of shield who had instructions
in case of emergency to bring all these
random pieces to the bar
luckily simmons still brainscrambled but
knows exactly what to do with them in
fact the final piece is her wedding ring
oh this machine opens a portal who's
this warping in
it's leopold fitz all right he's like
congrats guys you did it see you changed
history enough that it created an
alternate timeline but now we can warp
to our original timeline and save it
the team's like hey we're not going to
just abandon this timeline to being
taken over by the chronicoms so they
form a plan to bring the chronic comms
back with them
only thing is one of them would have to
stay behind and the volunteer is deke
who's kind of a rockstar here anyway so
they do the science thing and womp take
all the chronic comms with them leaving
deke in the 1980s alternate timeline to
restart shield and be a rock star so
finally we get the backstory of
fitzsimmons plan enoch managed to get a
copy of the time stream and fitz
analyzed it doctor strange style seeing
all possible futures and figuring out
the plan they got to work building a
time machine but because they're
building a time machine it doesn't
really matter how long it took so they
decided to just take some years and live
happily ever after eventually though it
was time for action fitz had to stay
behind in the original timeline while
gemma erased her memory then saved our
crew from the end of season six and
warped out of there so now back in their
original timeline right at the end of
season six our crew has to close the
loop
yes simon's random helpers were our crew
from the future meanwhile the rest of
the team infiltrates the cronk ship
where quake has her final quick fight
sybil from her control center can issue
orders to all the chronicom hunters and
our team's going to hijack it cause
mei bust's in yeah the cavalry's here
they grab cora who's ready to be a good
guy now and use her vague powers to
somehow boost the signal down to the
lighthouse where the chronic combs are
invading
so boom olicron comes hit with mei's new
empath powers
gave them emotions so they're like oh
i'm so sorry we've been huge dicks
but quake has to finish off her
superpower fight this guy's pretty
strong but she's stronger
boom full unleashed powers destroys the
whole fleet
does daisy die in space though luckily
not her sister cora's powers not only
explode people and boost signals but
also bring it back to life then
fitzsimmons get back to where they left
off turns out there's a part of the
flashback they left out
they had a kid oh fitzsimmons baby so
cute
and so one year later fitz told him as
part of the plan they would never be in
the same room again but they said screw
that let's meet up at the old bar and
have a good old chat except turns out
the prediction was true they're not
actually here together it's a high-tech
zoom meeting yo-yo is still working as
an agent of shield with her new team
including minor characters piper and
davis brought back his life metal decoy
and now with her unlocked speed powers
she's one of the strongest super agents
they got melinda may has retired from
field work she's decided to be an
instructor at the new coulson
shield academy fitz and simmons now also
retired they've had enough adventures to
last multiple lifetimes
they finally live there happily ever
after mack has not retired he's still
director of shield
he's leading shield into the new era
with their brand new hella carrier
alright and daisy johnson formerly the
hacker sky turned inhuman super agent
quake she's still dating daniel souza
and they're on their own special mission
in space
who knows what that's up to but maybe
one day quake will make it into the
marvel movies and as for agent coulson
well he planned on shutting himself down
when the mission was over but max sent
him a gift a newly refurbished lola
complete with an epic new paint job and
flying powers closer figures he can
always shut down later he may as well go
travel the world
and so it ends the way it began with
coulson's sweet flying car
and that's how agents of shield comes to
an end
if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you love
this recap check out the join button and
support the channel as a member